Draft for review: script security (#4693)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/security/scripting.adoc

---

> title: Security for Scripts

Author: ```suggestion
title: Scripting
```

layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]

Apache Groovy scripts can be executed on the Jenkins controller and agents through various mechanisms including:

* link:/doc/book/managing/script-console/[Script Console]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/groovy/[Groovy plugin]
when using the "Execute system Groovy script" step
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/email-ext/[Extended Email plugin]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/groovy/[Job DSL plugin]
* link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/[Pipelines]

Scripts are powerful and useful tools but they must be managed carefully
to ensure that they are not used to compromise your installation:

* Limit the people to whom the *Overall/Administer* permission is granted.
This allows people to use the
link:/doc/book/managing/script-console/[Script Console].
This authorization allows one to type in and execute an Apache Groovy script
in a largely unrestricted environment
so it should only be available to highly trusted, sophisticated users.

> Two facilities are provided that allow users with lesser permissions

Author: ```suggestion
The Script Security plugin provides two facilities
that allow users with lesser permissions
```
